docs/docs/agent-events.md, before:

# Agent events

Agent events are actions or interactions that occur as part of an agent workflow. They include:

- Agent lifecycle events
- Strategy events
- Node events
- LLM call events
- Tool call events

## Event handlers

You can monitor and respond to specific events during the agent workflow by using event handlers for logging, testing, debugging, and extending agent behavior.

The EventHandler feature lets you hook into various agent events. It serves as an event delegation mechanism that:

- Manages the lifecycle of AI agent operations.
- Provides hooks for monitoring and responding to different stages of the workflow.
- Enables error handling and recovery.
- Facilitates tool invocation tracking and result processing.

<!--## Key components

The EventHandler entity consists of five main handler types:

- Initialization handler that executes at the initialization of an agent run
- Result handler that processes successful results from agent operations
- Error handler that handles exceptions and errors that occur during execution
- Tool call listener that notifies when a tool is about to be invoked
- Tool result listener that processes the results after a tool has been called-->


### Installation and configuration

The EventHandler feature integrates with the agent workflow through the `EventHandler` class,
which provides a way to register callbacks for different agent events, and can be installed as a feature in the agent configuration. For details, see [API reference](https://api.koog.
ai/agents/agents-features/agents-features-event-handler/ai.koog.agents.local.features.eventHandler.feature/-event-handler/index.html).

To install the feature and configure event handlers for the agent, do the following:

<!--- INCLUDE
import ai.koog.agents.core.agent.AIAgent
import ai.koog.agents.features.eventHandler.feature.handleEvents
import ai.koog.prompt.executor.llms.all.simpleOllamaAIExecutor
import ai.koog.prompt.llm.OllamaModels

val agent = AIAgent(
    promptExecutor = simpleOllamaAIExecutor(),
    llmModel = OllamaModels.Meta.LLAMA_3_2,
) {
-->
<!--- SUFFIX 
} 
-->

```kotlin
handleEvents {
    // Handle tool calls
    onToolCallStarting { eventContext ->
        println("Tool called: ${eventContext.tool.name} with args ${eventContext.toolArgs}")
    }
    // Handle event triggered when the agent completes its execution
    onAgentCompleted { eventContext ->
        println("Agent finished with result: ${eventContext.result}")
    }

    // Other event handlers
}
```
<!--- KNIT example-events-01.kt -->

For more details about event handler configuration, see [API reference](https://api.koog.ai/agents/agents-features/agents-features-event-handler/ai.koog.agents.local.features.eventHandler.feature/-event-handler-config/index.html).

You can also set up event handlers using the `handleEvents` extension function when creating an agent.
This function also installs the event handler feature and configures event handlers for the agent. Here is an example:

<!--- INCLUDE
import ai.koog.agents.core.agent.AIAgent
import ai.koog.agents.features.eventHandler.feature.handleEvents
import ai.koog.prompt.executor.llms.all.simpleOllamaAIExecutor
import ai.koog.prompt.llm.OllamaModels
-->
```kotlin
val agent = AIAgent(
    promptExecutor = simpleOllamaAIExecutor(),
    llmModel = OllamaModels.Meta.LLAMA_3_2,
){
    handleEvents {
        // Handle tool calls
        onToolCallStarting { eventContext ->
            println("Tool called: ${eventContext.tool.name} with args ${eventContext.toolArgs}")
        }
        // Handle event triggered when the agent completes its execution
        onAgentCompleted { eventContext ->
            println("Agent finished with result: ${eventContext.result}")
        }

        // Other event handlers
    }
}
```
<!--- KNIT example-events-02.kt -->

Commit message:

KG-148. Updated documentation with new LLM Streaming events
(cherry picked from commit 138e947f6d2b769a468145a2335f1e36d63f07c3)

docs/docs/agent-events.md, after:

# Agent events

Agent events are actions or interactions that occur as part of an agent workflow. They include:

- Agent lifecycle events
- Strategy events
- Node execution events
- LLM call events
- LLM streaming events
- Tool execution events

Note: Feature events are defined in the agents-core module and live under the package `ai.koog.agents.core.feature.model.events`. Features such as `agents-features-trace`, `agents-features-debugger`, and `agents-features-event-handler` consume these events to process and forward messages created during agent execution.

## Event handlers

You can monitor and respond to specific events during the agent workflow by using event handlers for logging, testing, debugging, and extending agent behavior.

The EventHandler feature lets you hook into various agent events. It serves as an event delegation mechanism that:

- Manages the lifecycle of AI agent operations.
- Provides hooks for monitoring and responding to different stages of the workflow.
- Enables error handling and recovery.
- Facilitates tool invocation tracking and result processing.

<!--## Key components

The EventHandler entity consists of five main handler types:

- Initialization handler that executes at the initialization of an agent run
- Result handler that processes successful results from agent operations
- Error handler that handles exceptions and errors that occur during execution
- Tool call listener that notifies when a tool is about to be invoked
- Tool result listener that processes the results after a tool has been called-->


### Installation and configuration

The EventHandler feature integrates with the agent workflow through the `EventHandler` class,
which provides a way to register callbacks for different agent events, and can be installed as a feature in the agent configuration. For details, see [API reference](https://api.koog.
ai/agents/agents-features/agents-features-event-handler/ai.koog.agents.local.features.eventHandler.feature/-event-handler/index.html).

To install the feature and configure event handlers for the agent, do the following:

<!--- INCLUDE
import ai.koog.agents.core.agent.AIAgent
import ai.koog.agents.features.eventHandler.feature.handleEvents
import ai.koog.prompt.executor.llms.all.simpleOllamaAIExecutor
import ai.koog.prompt.llm.OllamaModels

val agent = AIAgent(
    promptExecutor = simpleOllamaAIExecutor(),
    llmModel = OllamaModels.Meta.LLAMA_3_2,
) {
-->
<!--- SUFFIX 
} 
-->

```kotlin
handleEvents {
    // Handle tool calls
    onToolCallStarting { eventContext ->
        println("Tool called: ${eventContext.tool.name} with args ${eventContext.toolArgs}")
    }
    // Handle event triggered when the agent completes its execution
    onAgentCompleted { eventContext ->
        println("Agent finished with result: ${eventContext.result}")
    }

    // Other event handlers
}
```
<!--- KNIT example-events-01.kt -->

For more details about event handler configuration, see [API reference](https://api.koog.ai/agents/agents-features/agents-features-event-handler/ai.koog.agents.local.features.eventHandler.feature/-event-handler-config/index.html).

You can also set up event handlers using the `handleEvents` extension function when creating an agent.
This function also installs the event handler feature and configures event handlers for the agent. Here is an example:

<!--- INCLUDE
import ai.koog.agents.core.agent.AIAgent
import ai.koog.agents.features.eventHandler.feature.handleEvents
import ai.koog.prompt.executor.llms.all.simpleOllamaAIExecutor
import ai.koog.prompt.llm.OllamaModels
-->
```kotlin
val agent = AIAgent(
    promptExecutor = simpleOllamaAIExecutor(),
    llmModel = OllamaModels.Meta.LLAMA_3_2,
){
    handleEvents {
        // Handle tool calls
        onToolCallStarting { eventContext ->
            println("Tool called: ${eventContext.tool.name} with args ${eventContext.toolArgs}")
        }
        // Handle event triggered when the agent completes its execution
        onAgentCompleted { eventContext ->
            println("Agent finished with result: ${eventContext.result}")
        }

        // Other event handlers
    }
}
```
<!--- KNIT example-events-02.kt -->
