CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

<!-- Basic guidelines, should be refined -->

# Contributing Guidelines

One can contribute to the project by reporting issues or submitting changes via pull request.

## Reporting issues

Please use [Koog official YouTrack project](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issues/KG) for filing feature
requests and bug reports.

Questions about usage and general inquiries are better suited for StackOverflow or the [#koog-agentic-framework](https://kotlinlang.slack.com/messages/koog-agentic-framework/) channel in KotlinLang Slack.

## Submitting changes

Submit pull requests [here](https://github.com/JetBrains/koog/pulls).
However, please keep in mind that maintainers will have to support the resulting code of the project,
so do familiarize yourself with the following guidelines.

<!-- TODO: discuss git flow -->
<!-- TODO: align coding conventions with what the team is actually using -->

* All development (both new features and bug fixes) is performed in the `develop` branch.
    * The `main` branch contains the sources of the most recently released version.
    * Base your PRs against the `develop` branch.
    * The `develop` branch is pushed to the `main` branch during release.
    * Documentation in markdown files can be updated directly in the `main` branch,
      unless the documentation is in the source code, and the patch changes line numbers.
* If you make any code changes:
    * Follow the [Kotlin Coding Conventions](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/coding-conventions.html).
        * Use 4 spaces for indentation.
        * Use imports with '*'.
    * [Build the project](#building) to make sure it all works and passes the tests.
* If you fix a bug:
    * Write the test that reproduces the bug.
    * Fixes without tests are accepted only in exceptional circumstances if it can be shown that writing the
      corresponding test is too hard or otherwise impractical.
    * Follow the style of writing tests that is used in this project:
      name test functions as `testXxx`. Don't use backticks in test names.
* Comment on the existing issue if you want to work on it. Ensure that the issue not only describes a problem but also describes a solution that has received positive feedback. Propose a solution if none has been suggested.

## Documentation

The documentation is published on https://docs.koog.ai/. To propose changes or improvements to the documentation, go to the https://github.com/JetBrains/koog-docs repository.

## Building

### Prerequisites

Koog is a Kotlin Multiplatform framework, and you need a bunch of tools to build it:

- JDK 17+ (21 is recommended)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download) installed, as it is required to build Kotlin/JS targets.
- [Android SDK](https://developer.android.com/tools) installed, as it is required for Android target.
- On macOS, you would need [Xcode / Command Line Tools](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/resources/), these are needed to build Native targets. 

### How to build

This library is built with Gradle.

* Run `./gradlew build` to build. It also runs all the tests.
* Run `./gradlew <module>:check` to test the module you are looking at to speed
  things up during development.

You can import this project into IDEA, but you have to delegate build actions
to Gradle (in Preferences -> Build, Execution, Deployment -> Build Tools -> Gradle -> Build and run).

## Running tests

Please find more information in the [TESTING.md](TESTING.md).

Commit message:

add AGENT.md with project guidelines (#185)
- replace `CLAUDE.md` with `AGENT.md`
- update guideline

The goal is to provide a single guideline for any code agents, not just
for claude code

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

<!-- Basic guidelines, should be refined -->

# Contributing Guidelines

One can contribute to the project by reporting issues or submitting changes via pull request.

## Reporting issues

Please use [Koog official YouTrack project](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issues/KG) for filing feature
requests and bug reports.

Questions about usage and general inquiries are better suited for StackOverflow or the [#koog-agentic-framework](https://kotlinlang.slack.com/messages/koog-agentic-framework/) channel in KotlinLang Slack.

## Submitting changes

Submit pull requests [here](https://github.com/JetBrains/koog/pulls).
However, please keep in mind that maintainers will have to support the resulting code of the project,
so do familiarize yourself with the following guidelines.

<!-- TODO: discuss git flow -->
<!-- TODO: align coding conventions with what the team is actually using -->

* All development (both new features and bug fixes) is performed in the `develop` branch.
    * The `main` branch contains the sources of the most recently released version.
    * Base your PRs against the `develop` branch.
    * The `develop` branch is pushed to the `main` branch during release.
    * Documentation in markdown files can be updated directly in the `main` branch,
      unless the documentation is in the source code, and the patch changes line numbers.
* If you make any code changes:
    * Follow the [Kotlin Coding Conventions](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/coding-conventions.html).
        * Use 4 spaces for indentation.
        * Use imports with '*'.
    * [Build the project](#building) to make sure it all works and passes the tests.
* If you fix a bug:
    * Write the test that reproduces the bug.
    * Fixes without tests are accepted only in exceptional circumstances if it can be shown that writing the
      corresponding test is too hard or otherwise impractical.
    * Follow the style of writing tests that is used in this project:
      name test functions as `testXxx`. Don't use backticks in test names.
* Comment on the existing issue if you want to work on it. Ensure that the issue not only describes a problem but also describes a solution that has received positive feedback. Propose a solution if none has been suggested.

## Working with AI Code Agents

This project includes some helpful guidelines to make AI coding assistants work better with codebase. 

### Agent Guidelines

You'll find an [AGENT.md](AGENT.md) file in the repository root.
Think of it as a cheat sheet for AI assistants that explains:

- **How the project works** — the overall architecture and main concepts
- **Development workflow** — which commands to run and how to build things
- **Testing patterns** — our approach to mocks and test structure
- **Code conventions** — the style we follow and why

### How to use `AGENT.md`

When you're pairing with an AI assistant on this project:

1. Share the `AGENT.md` file with your code agent of choice (Junie, Claude Code, Cursor, Copilot, etc.)
2. The AI will understand our project structure and conventions better
3. You can even use it as a starting point to create custom configs for specific agents

## Documentation

The documentation is published on https://docs.koog.ai/. To propose changes or improvements to the documentation, go to the https://github.com/JetBrains/koog-docs repository.

## Building

### Prerequisites

Koog is a Kotlin Multiplatform framework, and you need a bunch of tools to build it:

- JDK 17+ (21 is recommended)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download) installed, as it is required to build Kotlin/JS targets.
- [Android SDK](https://developer.android.com/tools) installed, as it is required for Android target.
- On macOS, you would need [Xcode / Command Line Tools](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/resources/), these are needed to build Native targets. 

### How to build

This library is built with Gradle.

* Run `./gradlew build` to build. It also runs all the tests.
* Run `./gradlew <module>:check` to test the module you are looking at to speed
  things up during development.

You can import this project into IDEA, but you have to delegate build actions
to Gradle (in Preferences -> Build, Execution, Deployment -> Build Tools -> Gradle -> Build and run).

## Running tests

Please find more information in the [TESTING.md](TESTING.md).
